---
title:  "Essay 3: Technology's Future"
date:   2022-10-26 10:00:00 -0400
show_date: false
---
**Complete by: Thursday 11 May, before noon.**  
*First Draft by: Friday 5 May, at class time.*

What is the future of ____________? Pick a specific business domain or social institution you are interested in (gaming, medicine, business and work, the home, travel, retail sales, the military, publishing/writing, “truth,” etc.) and discuss how technology is likely to affect that domain in the future. Ground your analysis in an understanding of the history of the topic, and in the futurist arguments we discussed in class. Research and describe specific examples from current technologies as evidence for your assertions. In the spirit of Postman, feel free to comment on both positive and negative aspects of the future you envision. *Do something more than just write about what you've found: draw conclusions about what life will be like in the future you are describing. These should be part of your thesis, and part of your discussion throughout the paper.*

Write an essay in response to the prompt above. The essay should have a minimum of six paragraphs: an introduction, four body paragraphs, and a conclusion; but it will probably require more. Use five or more sources, and be sure to demonstrate your ability to integrate quotes as you refer to your sources as evidence for your assertions. No more than two sources should be from our course readings—the rest should be sources that you researched on your own.

We will have a peer evaluation session for this essay at the end of the term, and then you will also have the option of a conference with me. During these conferences, we can talk about your overall approach to the assignment, or about a particular paragraph or writing issue that you identify. The essay is due by the end of the final exam time established for our class.

**Requirements**:

- Submit your essay to the dropbox on [Sakai](//sakai.washjeff.edu).
- A minimum of 6 paragraphs, 900-1500 words
- Include the wordcount in the header of your paper
- Five or more sources (no more than two drawn from our course readings)
- Several integrated and correctly cited quotes from your sources 
- Double-spaced, readable font
- MLA Format & Citations
- PDF format (not a Word doc or other file type)
